Hello, and welcome back to
the computer forensics path,
Course 6, recognizing and
collecting digital evidence.
In this course, we're going to
cover preparation and planning,
securing and evaluating the
scene, documenting the scene,
how we're going to
collect evidence,
how we're going to transport,
package, and store evidence.
In Course 6, Module 1,
we are going to cover the
pre-recovery planning phase.
Pre-recovering planning is one of
the most important parts
of the investigation.
Because if we don't seize
the evidence properly,
it will not be
admissible in court.
Pre-recovery planning is
going to include being able
to recognize sources
of digital evidence,
being able to document it,
collect it properly,
package it properly,
be able to transport it in
a safe way to preserve
the evidence,
and store it in an area
where it's going to
be secure and safe.
Our planning phase,
which was our first one.
The first thing we want
to consider is going to
be what kind of case
are we investigating?
What is the alleged
violation or crime?
Is it a violation
of company policy?
Is it a crime?
We're going to want to
think about our case.
This is going to
lead us to believe
what type of evidence we're
going to be collecting.
If you're looking for
a case that's going to
involve a lot of
communications or
a case that's going
to involve a lot of
mobile devices versus a
case where we're going to
be looking at servers and raids
and all kinds of large
configurations of networks.
What type of case
are we looking at?
What type of evidence are we
are going to be collecting?
What's at the scene?
Is this a residence
or a business?
Are we going into a home or
we're going to be looking
for maybe a single laptop or are
we going to a business work
and we're going to be dealing
with that network and that
server-type environment?
What type of Internet
these people have,
is it going to be
secure or unsecure?
You want to know that in
advance so you would
want to do some
reconnaissance on the scene.
We'll talk more about doing
scene reconnaissance before we
execute our search warrant.
What are the user's skills?
Is our user a computer
programmer or is
our user somebody who can
barely turn the computer on?
Do we know if Cloud
storage is going to be
part of our case, is it likely?
If you're dealing with a
lot of social networking
and Cloud storage like Dropbox,
if you know you're dealing
with Dropbox, Google Drive,
OneDrive, is Cloud storage
going to be part of
our investigation?
If so, how are we
going to handle that?
When we're planning, we have
to make considerations.
First of all, is how
are we going to enter?
Is this a business
where we're just going
to walk in and ask to speak with
the manager or is
this a home where
we're going to have to
be knocking on a door
and somebody's going to
answer it or is this more
of a high-risk warrant?
We're dealing with a narcotics or
a gang-type environment where
we're going to need to
make a dynamic entry,
maybe SWAT makes
the entry for us.
How are we going to contain
the suspects once we're inside?
Because the first
thing we're going to
want to do is get the people away
from the computers
because we don't want
them destroying or
altering evidence.
How are we going to contain the
suspects when we
get to the scene?
Are we going to have
specialized legal issues?
If this is a business,
we know we're probably not
going to be able to
shut their computers
down so live imaging is
going to be concerned.
What type of network
are we dealing with?
Is it a single laptop?
A bunch of mobile devices?
Is it a server firm?
So we need to know what
we're walking into.
The administrator,
if we're dealing
with Cloud services
or Cloud computing,
the administrators
may not be on-site.
Do they contract out
their computer services
or is the administrator
going to be on-site?
That is another thing
we want to consider.
Planning. If we know
in advancement we're
going into servers,
do we know that they
can't be shut down?
We need to know what type of
operating system possible,
are they using a standard
operating system
or is this a proprietary
operating system?
Are they on or off scene?
Because again, we could
be dealing with Cloud
computers where a lot
of companies now are going to
AWS or other types
of Cloud computing.
Where are our servers
actually going to be?
What type of databases are
we going to be dealing with?
Are they standard databases?
Are they going to be a
proprietary database?
These are all things that
we want to know if possible
before we plan out
our search warrant.
Operations plan.
When you show up,
you just can't have
everybody go running in
and start moving
everything around.
There's a certain way
we have to do things so
your best bet is to assign
personnel in advance.
You're going to
have a supervisor,
no matter where you work,
you always have one of those.
You're going to have
people assigned to
do interviews and search.
You're going to have people
assign to just evidence.
They're going to document log
all those evidence as it comes
in and do the evidence
intake, very important.
You're going to
have certain people
that are going to be
assigned to preview
this evidence and we're
going to talk about
previewing as we go
through this path.
You're going to have somebody
whose responsibility it is to
take photographs of the scene and
photographs of the
evidence as they're found.
All these assignments
should be done at advance,
everybody should know their
role before they walk into
that residence or business
when we are doing one of
these search warrants.
Search warrants surveillance,
extremely important.
Know the place you
will researching,
you want to know the
physical layout as well
as what we're going to be
walking into digitally.
Is that residents or
is it a business?
Do we want people present?
What is the layout of this
residents or business?
Who lives there?
Who receives mail there?
Who resides there?
All these things are very
important before you
execute a search warrant.
What kind of equipment
are we going to need?
Well, that's going to depend
on what we're
walking into but you
always want to try to come with
as much equipment as
you possibly can.
We're going to need toolkit,
we'll need bags, markers,
evidence tape, camera,
large envelopes,
small envelopes too,
anti-static bags, Faraday bags,
bags that will block signals,
scissors, evidence log,
all these things are
going to be necessary.
This is more equipment
we're going to need
to consider having, we
going to need pens,
you're going to
need gloves because
the areas you're
going to be searching
can be contaminated.
You will need some type
of hand sanitizer,
we're going to need labels,
we're going to need
sterilized target media
to copy our data onto,
especially if we're doing
live acquisitions and
we're going to talk about this
in-depth throughout the path.
You're going to need some type of
laptop to run your software from,
you're going to need
forensic software,
we're going to need
write blockers,
we're going to need cables
and connectors because we don't
know what we need to
connect to at this point.
Then you're going
to need some type
of portable batteries to
prevent electronic items from
having some type of
data loss and again,
we're going to cover more on
this throughout this path.
On-site preview.
The reasoning for doing
an on-site preview
is just going to
reduce the amount of
items we need to collect.
It's going to stop us from
collecting unnecessary items,
which the days of walking,
take everything, leave and
try to examine it over.
Most home computers now
have terabytes size hard
drives at the least
and we do not have the time to
examine every item that can be
seized in even just
the average home,
it's just not practical.
You want to reduce the
amount of items you collect,
you don't want to collect
unnecessary items and that's
one of the reasons you
do an on-site preview.
Another reason would be to
locate relevant evidence.
We want to eliminate
evidence that is irrelevant,
we want to be able to focus
in on relevant evidence,
an on-site preview
will help us do that.
Another reason would be it would
limit the interruption
of a business.
If you're doing a
live on-site preview,
you can limit your impact on
that business and that's going to
be very important down the line.
In our next module,
we're going to discuss
documenting the scene.